OUR INNOVATIVE SUSPENSION
                                                                                The front drive axle can rock left and
                                                                                                                                                  HARDWARE
                                                                                right to adjust to diﬀerent obstacles
                                                                                                                                                                                                       MCU

                                                                                                                                                                                         1            STM32F767ZI hihg-performance MCU
                                                                                                                                                                                                      running at 216MHz makes sure our robot
                                                                                                                                                                                                      adapts to the environment in real-time

                                                                                                                                                       MOTORS

OUR LEGACY
                                                                                                                                                       DDSM210 brushless servo motors proppel
                                                                                                                                                       out robot throughout the maze with
                                                                                                                                                       astonishing accuracy
                                                                                                                                                                                                        2
SERŠ TEAM has been building robots and competign with
them since 2012. We are a group of students dedicated to                                                                                                                                              DISTANCE SENSORS
creating advanced robotics solutions and representing                                                                                                                                    3            ST’s VL53L3CX ToF distance sensors are
                                                                                                                                                                                                      more resiliant to strong ambient light, this

                                                                                                         1
Slovenia at international competitions like RoboCup                                                                                                                                                   allows out robot to detect every wall clearly

                                                                                                                                                       COLOR SENSOR

TEAM MEMBERS                                                                                 5
                                                                                                                                                       TCS34725 color sensor can measure color
                                                                                                                                                       in under 3ms, alerting our robot in case of
                                                                                                                                                       a black tile
                                                                                                                                                                                                        4
            Tadej Božičko
                                                                                                                                                                                                      IMAGE RECOGNITION

                                                                                                                                                                                         5
            Team Lead | Hardware Engineer
            Tadej has been with SERŠ for three years, he designed                                                                                                                                     A dedicated Raspberry PI 5 seperates the
            custom PCBs, the chassis and other hardware. He also                                                                                                                                      image recognition pipeline from the rest of
                                                                                                                                                                                                      the logic, allowing for uninterrupted driving
            helped with the drivers for sensors and motors.

            Mark Ptičar                                                                                                                               CAMERAS
            Software Developer | Website Manager
                                                                                                                 6                                    Two Raspberry wide camera module 3, both
                                                                                                                                                      running at 30 fps can see and detect a victim     6
                                                                                         3
            Mark is a new member of the team. He manages our                                                                                          no matter where it is
            website and sponsors, to secure funding for our robot.
            In addition, he helped with the robot’s software.

            Luka Turinek                                                    4
            Machine Learning Engineer
            Luka is also a new member. He was respnonsible
            for the image recognition pipeline. He trained our
                                                                                                     2
            model from scratch using a custom dataset.
                                                                                                                                                                             OUR FOUNDATION
                                                                                                                                                                             Our software stack consists mainly of C++

SOME OF OUR ACHIEVEMENTS                                                                                                                                                     due to it’s performance and manual memory
                                                                                                                                                                             control, as well as python for image recognition.
                                                                                                                                                                             This allowed us to focus on optimizing the core
  2013, World Cup in Eindhoven, 1st Place
                                                                                                                                                                             functions and use advance detection models for
• 2015, World Cup in Hefei, 3rd Place (Cospace)
                                                                                                                                                                             victims.
• 2018, World Cup in Montreal, Innovation award
• 2022, European Cup in Guimarães, 1st Place (Cospace SuperTeam)
• 2023, European Cup in Varaždin, 1st Place (Cospace Advanced)
• 2023, European Cup in Varaždin, 1st Place (Rescue Simulation SuperTeam)
                                                                                                                         OUR CORNERSTONE
                                                                                                                         Our robot excels with its cutting-edge mapping
                                                                                                                         and pathﬁnding! It uses time-of-ﬂight distance
                                                                                                                         and color sensors to scan the maze, stores the
                                                                                                                         data in a 3D matrix, and applies Dijkstra’s
                                                                                                                         algorithm to ﬁnd the optimal path, assigning
                                                                                                                         higher cost to blue tiles for smarter navigation.
