ROBOCUPJUNIOR RESCUE MAZE 2026

                                         TEAM DESCRIPTION PAPER
                                                      Pi-rates

 Abstract
            We are the Pi-rates from Branchburg, New Jersey. Our robot is created by using different actuators,
            sensors, and microcontrollers, packed into a 3D-printed chassis. Actuators on the robot include geared
            metal motors for drive and a combination of a stepper motor and a servo, which are used to deliver rescue
            kits to victims in the maze. Some sensors of the Pi-rates team robot include time-of-flight, encoders, IMU
            sensors, and wide-angle Raspberry Pi cameras. Along with the actuators and sensors, the robot uses a Pico
            and a Raspberry Pi 5 to process sensor inputs and generate navigation outputs. Our robot is capable of
            traversing the maze, identifying victims, avoiding obstacles, and dropping rescue kits along the way. After
            visiting every tile, the robot is able to traverse back to the point of origin. Some capabilities that set our
            team apart from competitors are how we handle challenges such as alignment and weight distribution.
            Members of our team have past knowledge in different aspects of robotics, which gave us the capability to
            refine our hardware and software.​

Introduction
    1.​ Team
        ●​ Alice Ma is currently a 9th grader at Hillsborough High School. She wrote the code for the RP2350, which
           is responsible for traversing the maze by interpreting sensor values and handling camera values for
           victims. She also assisted in the technical design of the robot and the integration of the CV and Arduino
           code. Her past experiences include: 1st overall at RoboCup Jr. Rescue Line Primary Nationals.
        ●​ Romit Gurao is currently an 8th grader at Mount Olive Middle School in Morris County, New Jersey. He
           worked on the hardware and electronics aspects of the robot. Along with electronics, Romit has also
           contributed to the CAD assembly of his team's robot, mainly working in the OnShape platform. His past
           experiences include: FLL competitions in 2023 and 2024, FTC Mechanical Lead MORT Jr, and the
           Congressional App Challenge 2025/2026.
        ●​ Showrya Verma is currently a 9th grader at Bridgewater-Raritan High School. He handled the computer
           vision aspect, including building algorithms for analyzing cognitive targets and implementing the You
           Only Look Once software for letter recognition. His past experiences include: 2nd overall at RoboCup Jr.
           Rescue Line Primary USA (2023) and American Computer Science League finals (2026).

Project Planning
   a.​ Overall Project Plan
        ●​ Our Team’s Objective
               ○​ Our objective for RoboCup Junior Rescue Maze is to design a fully autonomous robot capable of
                  efficiently navigating a maze environment while also performing tasks such as wall tracing,
                  obstacle avoidance, ramp/stairs, colored tile detection, victim identification, and bullseye, while
                  maintaining stability and accuracy under time constraints.
        ●​ Requirements and Constraints
               ○​ Physical constraints: compact chassis capable of fitting within the maze, stable maneuvering over
                  ramps, stairs, and uneven floor, must integrate multiple sensors (LiDAR/Time-of-Flight, cameras,
                  IMU (Gyroscope), etc.), and limited space for electronics (Pi 5, Cytron/Pico controller, batteries)

                                                                                                                         1
              ○​ Competition constraints: fully autonomous operation, detection and response to victims and
                  markers, accurate navigation through maze sections, and reliable obstacle detection and avoidance
                  without human intervention
        ●​ Milestones
Date            Milestone                                                          Lead(s)

January 5           ●​ Breadth-First-Search-based autonomous navigation            Alice
                           ○​ Integrated wall detection using Time-Of-Flight
                               sensor feedback
                           ○​ Added visited-state tracking, backtracking, and
                               return-to-start functionality

January 13          ●​ 3D printed chassis capable of maze travel                   Romit
                           ○​ Optimized weight distribution (low center of
                                gravity via bottom battery placement)
                           ○​ Implemented silicone tires and a 4-motor encoder
                                drive for stability on ramps/stairs/speed bumps

February 16     Rescue kit deployment system including stepper-driven dispensing   Romit
                wheel for controlled kit release, servo-controlled ramp for
                directional placement, and fully modular dropper assembly for
                maintenance and testing

February 20         ●​ Vision system (YOLO, cognitive targets, letters)            Showrya
                           ○​ Dual Raspberry Pi camera integration
                           ○​ YOLO model pipeline for detection tasks
                           ○​ Bullseye detection using contour and threshold
                                pipeline

March 9             ●​ Colored tile integration into navigation                    Alice
                           ○​ RGB/threshold-based detection for tile
                               classification
                           ○​ Integrated tile effects into BFS decision logic
                           ○​ Adjusted traversal behavior based on tile type

May 5               ●​ Obstacle detection and avoidance integration                Alice
                           ○​ ToF (Time of Flight) and LiDAR-based obstacle
                               detection system
                           ○​ State-based avoidance behavior integrated into
                               navigation loop
                           ○​ Dynamic path adjustment within BFS framework

May 10              ●​ Full autonomous system integration                          Alice, Showrya
                            ○​ Combined BFS, vision, sensors
                            ○​ Enabled full maze traversal under competition
                                constraints
                            ○​ Integrated colored tiles, obstacles, victims, and
                                rescue kit dropping using cameras

        ●​ Planning Strategy
               ○​ Tasks divided into subsystems: mechanical, navigation, sensors, vision, and integration
               ○​ Milestones completed in the order of dependency:
                       ●​ mechanical -> movement -> BFS -> sensors -> vision -> full integration
               ○​ Mechanical and movement were prioritized first to ensure reliable movement before logic.
               ○​ CV, BFS, and hardware were worked on simultaneously to save time
               ○​ Testing was performed after each milestone and used iterative debugging
   b.​ Integration Plan
       ●​ System distributes tasks:
              ○​ Raspberry Pi 5 is used for vision processing and navigation
              ○​ Pico/Cytron is used for motor and sensor control
       ●​ Communication:
              ○​ Serial communication between the Pi and the controller
              ○​ Sensors & ToFs feed data to Cytron, used for movement and BFS
              ○​ Cameras feed image data to the Pi, used for victim detection
       ●​ Component Integration:​
              ○​ Navigation (BFS) - controls movement and path planning
              ○​ Sensors (ToF, IMU, LiDAR, color) - provide wall, obstacle, and tile information
              ○​ Vision (YOLO, CV) - detects victims and targets
              ○​ Encoders - ensure accurate movement and turning
              ○​ Rescue system - triggered based on stimulus

Hardware
   1.​ Our robot has a chassis mainly composed of 3D printed parts using PLA material, with a double-decker design
       for optimal use of component placement.
   2.​ There are many sensors on our robot, including: 2 Raspberry Pi Cameras, a color sensor, a LiDAR sensor, 6
       time of flight sensors, and a gyroscopic sensor.
   3.​ All of the I2C sensors are connected to a Multiplexer (MUX).
   4.​ We use 4 micro metal gear motors to control the wheels and robot movement.
   5.​ We use a stepper motor and a servo motor to control the rescue kit mechanism.
   6.​ Our robot uses custom-created silicone tires that fit a 3D printed rim which is attached to purchased motors

   c.​ Mechanical Design and Manufacturing
          ●​ Mechanical Design
                i.​ Chassis
                        1.​ Our robot chassis layers the heaviest items at the bottom and lighter items at the top.
                            The batteries are positioned at the base of the chassis to achieve a low center of
                            gravity, significantly improving stability and preventing the robot from toppling. Our
                            team used custom created silicone wheels for better grip of ramps and stairs, and to
                            effectively cross speed bumps. The design of the chassis consists of a rectangular
                            body with multiple openings for wiring and accessibility, as well as holes for
                            mounting all sensors and other components. A rescue kit dropper assembly is attached
                            to the main structure at the top
               ii.​ Drive System & Wheels
                        1.​ Four micro metal gear motors with encoders are used for movement of the robot
                            because encoders provide precise movement

                 iii.​   Battery Mounting
                             1.​ Motor mounts are designed to use slimmer battery,
                                 which can be kept close to ground for a lower center of
                                 gravity
                             2.​ With most weight of robot closer to ground, robot
                                 avoids toppling on ramps
                             3.​ The batteries also provide a form of structure for the
                                 wheel mounts, as it prevents the wheels from bending inward or outward.​
                 iv.​    Rescue Kit Mechanism
                             1.​ Our robot uses a wheel that rotates rescue kits which drop onto a ramp that controls
                                 the direction in which they fall out.
                             2.​ The wheel is controlled by a stepper motor for precise
                                 control of how much the wheel turns, so that the exact
                                 number of kits can be dropped.
               3.​ The ramp is turned by the servo motor to control the direction in which the rescue kits
                   slide off the robot.
               4.​ Rescue kit holder assembly holds moving components, these components can be
                   easily attached/detached to the robot with the use of four screws
                       a.​ Allows accessibility of inner components/wiring.
      v.​   Camera mounting
               1.​ To keep protruding cameras from colliding with external objects, cameras are
                   mounted to an alcove on the inside face of the robot chassis's walls.
                       a.​ These alcoves ensure the camera lens is flush with the external surface of the
                            chassis wall, preventing collision with external factors.
                       b.​ Also, neopixel ring holders are mounted to the outside of the robot in an
                            indent
                               i.​ These illuminate the walls surrounding the camera, providing lighting
                                    consistency for victim detection.

●​ Manufacturing
     I.​ Three main manufactured parts of the robot are chassis, mounts for components, and wheels
    II.​ Chassis of robot is modeled using Onshape and SketchUp online CAD platforms
   III.​ Majority of the robot chassis and mounts are 3D printed with PLA plastic
   IV.​ All major electronics parts and components such as motors,sensors,actuators, and
         microcontrollers are purchased from vendors such as Adafruit and Pololu
    V.​ Wheels manufactured by following method
            A.​ Shape of wheel is created in CAD
            B.​ The wheel shape is hollowed out to create a mold specifically for the tire.
            C.​ A cylindrical core is then extruded within this wheel-shaped void.
            D.​ Once mold model is created, it is 3D printed
            E.​ Silicone mixture is poured into mould and left to thicken
            F.​ Once mixture is thickened, the tire is taken out of the mold and rim is 3D printed to fit
                 the tire
            G.​ Wheel and rim are attached to the micro metal gear motor using adapter

     vi.​   Testing Procedures
                1.​ To test the mechanical functionality of the robot, we used several tests:
                        a.​ Ramp: The robot is sent up and down a 5-foot, 25-degree inclined plane with
                             weights on both front and back to see if it can handle ramps steadily.
                       b.​ Stairs: Tiles are stacked to create a 60 cm set of stairs that increase and
                            decrease the robot’s altitude. Weights are added to the robot to further test its
                            capabilities.
                       c.​ Speed Bump: The robot is sent over varying heights, orientations, and sizes of
                            speed bumps to see if the robot can stay on course despite them. Motor speeds
                            are tweaked based on results.
                       d.​ Point Turn: The robot spins all four motors at the same speed (left side and
                            right side in different directions). From this test, we can gather if the wheels
                            are drifting, if voltage is adequate, and if wheels are aligned.​
●​ Problems and solutions
    vii.​ Problem: Drift during point turns causes an inaccurate final position
               1.​ Although we used the IMU for accurate turns, the wheels were slipping, causing the
                   robot to be off-center and land in a different position than when it started, even though
                   it was facing the right direction.
               2.​ To address this issue, we utilized the encoders on our wheels, which ensured both left
                   and right sides rotate the exact same amount during point turns. This prevented one
                   side from overpowering the other, allowing the robot to self-correct during rotation
                   and maintain a centered final position in the maze.
               3.​ Along with utilizing encoders, we learned that the current wheel attachment method
                   did not always result in a fixed axis, and the axis of rotation would wobble during
                   motor spin. After reattaching and aligning the wheels, the
                   robot could make sharper point turns
   viii.​ Problem: Robot toppling in more complex maneuvering
               1.​ In our original design for the robot, the robot would fall
                   either forward or backward on the ramp.
               2.​ To address this, instead of keeping the batteries at the
                   same level as the rest of the components higher up, we
                   modified the wheel mounts to create room for the batteries
                   (our heaviest components) at the bottom of the robot. This
                   significantly lowered the center of mass on the robot, and kept it
                   stable on inclines.
               3.​ Instead of using one battery pack, two battery packs are utilized to
                   add weight to both front and back of the robot, this ensures that
                   while ascending or descending on ramps wheels are always touching table
               4.​ Utilizing the IMU when elevation was detected the robot adjusts speed to ensure
                   toppling is avoided
     ix.​ Problem: Difficult access to internal components during testing and repairs.
               1.​ Our original design had a rigid roof, making it increasingly difficult to wire new
                   sensors or modify our hardware that were inside of the robot.
               2.​ To fix this issue, we adjusted our chassis design to be modular, with openings and a
                   detachable rescue kit assembly (roof) secured by just four screws for quick removal.
      x.​ Problem:In first version of robot, many components were sticking outside of the robot, due to
          this robot was getting stuck on walls, and wires were easy to disconnect
               1.​ Chassis was redesigned with indents along the chassis wall which protected all sensors
                   from colliding with walls
               2.​ MUX(device that connects all sensors) of robot was put underneath the robot in order
                   to make wiring and connections to sensors easier, decreasing risk of unplugged wires
Electronic Design and Manufacturing
    2.​ Electric components​ ​             ​        ​       ​         ​
                    i.​ Time-Of-Flight sensors (VL53LOX)
                              1.​ Infrared light is excreted and time it takes to receive signal is calculated
                              2.​ Time of flight sensors distance helps robot determine walls and obstacles in maze
                              3.​ 6 sensors are used on bot, and sensors are wired to Multiplexer using stemma
                                  connection
                   ii.​ IMU Gyro (BNO055)
                              1.​ Uses a 9-axis magnetometer to detect angles of three directional rotation
                              2.​ IMU is used to accurately navigate in maze
                              3.​ IMU helps determine if the robot is on ramps or stairs, which can then adjust wheel
                                  speed
                  iii.​ Wide View Time-Of-Flight (VL53L4CX)
                              1.​ Our team has utilized time-of-flight sensors to return readings from a larger field of
                                  view
                              2.​ The VL53LCX is a singular sensor mounted in the central front part of the robot
                              3.​ This sensor is a Time Of Flight sensors that has greater range, and can return the
                                  lengths of different objects in its path of view
                              4.​ Obstacle detection is done using this sensor
                              5.​ Sensor is connected to main robot with multiplexer (MUX)
                  iv.​ Color Sensor (APDS-9960)
                              1.​ Our team has utilized a RGB color sensor to detect colored tiles within the maze
                              2.​ Singular sensor is mounted beneath the front part of robot
                   v.​     Pololu Qik 2s12v10 motor controller
                              1.​ Our robot utilizes motor controllers to provide
                                  voltage to four motors
                              2.​ Motor controllers communicate with pico using
                                  serial, on pico GPIO pins do motor control
                              3.​ Main power supply is hooked up to Motor
                                  controller and then distributed to Pico, and 5V
                                  components
                  vi.​ Pololu Micro Metal Geared motors- used for movement
                 vii.​ OLED display
                viii.​ Servo
                  ix.​ Raspberry Pi 5: used for running OpenCV and vision
                         libraries and connected to Pico using serial communication
                   x.​ Pico: used for controlling motors and sensors of robot and uses RP2040 cpu chip
        Innovative solutions
            a.​ Problem: Previously, our team was using a Cytron Motion Pro 2350 to control the entire robot. With
                the addition of many sensors and components over time, the Cytron’s output voltage draw exceeded its
                capacity. Excessive output voltage caused a pin on the CPU to pull up when motors were under stress
                (such as turns and ramps). Two solutions were to add a motor controller or use a more powerful
                battery. Using a more powerful battery, however, would add size and weight.
                    i.​ Solution: To solve the brownout and power issue on our robot, we decided that it was best to
                         use a motor controller. A motor controller has many advantages and disadvantages. With an
                         external motor controller, more GPIO pins would have to be used. However, the Cytron
                         Motion Pro did not have enough pins to accommodate the motor controller. In order to use the
                         motor controllers we decided to use a Pico 2, which gave us more wiring flexibility, and
                         freedom wiring components.
            b.​ Problem:Using a MUX to connect more than 9 stemma components puts voltage strain on certain
                components. Due to the strain on voltage, an in built light on our robots color sensor is not able to get
                stable values as color sensor light flickers
                   i.​   Solution: In order to solve the issue of the lights flickering, two separate LED lights connected
                         to the external power supply were added to the bottom part of the robot near the color sensor
Software
   b.​ General software architecture
           I.​ Main code
             A.​ Tools
                     1.​ General hardware libraries:
                              a)​ Nicholas Zambetti: Wire library
                              b)​ Khoi Hoang: Little File System
                              c)​ Earle Philhower: Single File Drive
                              d)​ Mikal Hart: Software Serial
                     2.​ C libraries: math.h, queue, stack, map, string
                     3.​ Sensor and motor libraries:
                              a)​ Adafruit: Adafruit sensor, BNO055, GFX, SSD1306, APDS9960
                              b)​ Pololu: VL53L0X, Qik
                              c)​ STMicroelectronics: VL53L4CX
                              d)​ Michael Margolis: Servo
             B.​ Sensing Walls
                     1.​ The main code pulls sensor values from the robot’s 6 Time-Of-Flight sensors in order to
                         determine where walls are for the tile that it is currently on. It averages the values from
                         sensors on the same side, and compares the value to a preset threshold of 12 cm and 17 cm for
                         walls in front and on the sides respectively. If two sides are giving conflicting values, the robot
                         will attempt to move back and forth in order to find a window where they agree.
             C.​ Breadth-First Search (BFS)
                     1.​ The robot decides which tile to move to next using a breadth-first search algorithm. It also
                         uses this in order to find a path back to the starting tile for the end bonus. Breadth-first search
                         is an algorithm that uses nodes and checks each node at the present depth before moving onto
                         the next layer. This ensures the shortest possible path is found.
             D.​ Ramps
                     1.​ Ramps are detected using the BNO055. The current pitch, or the Z orientation, is checked in
                         order to figure out whether or not the robot is on a ramp. From there, the robot adjusts its
                         speed accordingly until the pitch levels out again. The ramp logic can also be applied to stairs
                         since they also change the robot’s incline. The threshold for detecting a ramp is 15 degrees in
                         order to ensure a speed bump will not be detected as a ramp.
             E.​ Colored Tiles
                     1.​ The APDS sensor is used to detect colored tiles. It returns red, green, blue, and clear values.
                         The values are compared to thresholds in order to determine whether a colored tile is being
                         detected. For example, for determining if a tile is silver, the clear value is compared since
                         silver reflects significantly more light than other colors like white and red. For red, the
                         red/blue ratio and the blue value is checked (blue is the blue/red ratio and the red value). This
                         helps rule out the other possible colors of white, silver, black, and blue. Black tiles are the last
                         checked as they have conditions which overlap with those of the red and blue tiles.
             F.​ Victims
                     1.​ The robot must interpret values from the cameras and blink as well as distribute rescue kits
                         accordingly. The main code does this by sending a value through Serial1 to the Pi, which
                         triggers it to send the victim values it's detecting. The values are then interpreted and run
                         through separate functions of switch cases. These functions are responsible for blinking the
                         LED and dropping the rescue kits on the correct side. The cameras are checked every 15 cm
                         because the field of view for the cameras is not large enough for them to be checked every 30
                         cm.
             G.​ Obstacles
                     1.​ The robot must be able to detect obstacles throughout the maze in a variety of positions. It
                         uses a combination of the two front TOFs and the L4CX wide range TOF in order to check for
                       obstacles. A system of if/else statements is used to sort the obstacles into distances (far or
                       close) and positions (center, left, or right). The walls are then marked in accordance with
                       where the obstacles are, and the robot might try to navigate around the obstacle if enough
                       space is possible. This is handled in a separate function of a switch case, which calls upon the
                       detection one and handles the position.
           H.​ File system
                   1.​ If the robot hits a lack of progress, it must be able to recall the information it previously
                       gained from exploring the maze so that it does not waste time traversing those tiles again. In
                       order to do so, the robot uses the file system of the chip itself rather than the local memory
                       from running the code. It can then open the file and read back in all the information it has on
                       the maze.
           I.​ Problems & Solutions
                   1.​ Robot was sensing the black tile, but continuing to try and traverse it rather than blocking it
                       off
                            a)​ The original code was marking the tile that the robot was trying to travel to as a hole
                                rather than the one that it was currently one
                            b)​ Fixed by switching variable names and running through code again to find similar
                                errors (blue tile had one where the target tile was being checked rather than the current
                                one)
                   2.​ Robot was moving backwards into walls because it couldn't check for them in the orientation
                       it was backing up in
                            a)​ The original code was having the robot move backward if the target tile could be
                                reached that way, regardless of if the tile had been previously checked for walls that
                                way
                            b)​ Fixed by adding an extra condition that the next tile that was being traversed to had to
                                be already visited in order to move backward since the walls for those are already
                                marked
                   3.​ Error was accumulating over time from both the IMU and encoders not being completely
                       perfect over time
                            a)​ Added corrections function that is called on throughout the code. This function checks
                                if there is a wall in front of it within 15 cm and uses that wall to straighten the robot
                                out and adjust its position on the tile. The adjustment is then saved as an error
                                correction that is applied to the return value from the function that checks for heading
                                values.
                            b)​ Also added an adjust function which is called when checking walls. This function
                                checks if the two sensors on the same side agree, and if they don't it tries moving both
                                forward and backward 7 cm in an attempt to get the sensors to agree on whether or not
                                they see a wall.

II.​   Victims
           A.​ Tools
                  1.​ The algorithms for victim detection were created using the OpenCV library and the You Only
                      Look Once (YOLO) framework. Additionally, the Roboflow website was used to efficiently
                      create a large dataset for training a neural network model (further details in section C).
                  2.​ C libraries: cmath, string.h, lccv, opencv, dnn, highgui, ocl, iostream, fstream, thread, termios,
                      fcntl, signal, sstream
           B.​ Cognitive target victims
                  1.​ Preprocessing and Identification of Victim
                          a)​ Video frame is obtained from camera
                          b)​ Video frame is cloned into 2 frames
                                    (1)​ Frame A: For target identification
                                    (2)​ Frame B: For cognitive target value calculation
                          c)​ Frame A is converted to grayscale and then to black and white using a binary inverse
                                threshold function
                        (1)​ This function turns white to black and all other colors to white using
                             predetermined threshold values
               d)​ Contouring function is used to generate a contour around the victim area.
                        (1)​ Contour: A set of points around the border of an area
               e)​ Another function calculates the center point and radius of the minimum circle that
                   encloses all contour points.
               f)​ Checks are done to throw out all false positives (areas too large or small to be victims)
                   before the code proceeds to calculation
       2.​ Calculation of Victim Values
               a)​ Frame B (mentioned in Section 1 Step 1) is converted to the HSV (Hue, Saturation,
                   Value) color space from the BGR (Blue, Green, Red) color space.
               b)​ Color values of pixels from each ring of the victim are extracted using the coordinates
                   of the center and fractions of the radius.
               c)​ Color values are fed into a custom function that converts them into values according
                   to the RCJ Maze Rules
               d)​ Values of all rings are summed to
                   determine the final status of the
                   victim.

C.​ Letter victims
       1.​ Overview of Model and Training
              a)​ Neural network trained with YOLO
                  (You Only Look Once) framework
              b)​ Training images taken with Raspberry Pi camera of three target letters
                      (1)​ Images were annotated to show where target letters were
              c)​ Inserted augmentations (changes) to images to make the model more versatile
                      (1)​ Brightness changes
                      (2)​ Zoom changes
              d)​ Model trained on augmented images and packaged into .onnx file to be used in code
D.​ Problems & Solutions
       1.​ Cognitive Target Victims
              a)​ Crashing due to trying to access pixels outside frame
                      (1)​ Problem: When a target is very close to the camera, the contour and its
                           enclosing circle can give the program coordinates for the rings that are outside
                           the boundaries of the frame. This causes the program to crash.
                      (2)​ Solution: Rigorous boundary-checking was added to the algorithm such that
                           the final victim value is only calculated if each ring’s coordinates are inside
                           the frame and give valid color values.
                                (a)​ Done by comparing coordinates of rings to size of frame (320 x 240)
              b)​ False positives due to size
                      (1)​ Problem: Small contours and overly large contours were detected as targets in
                           the initial versions of the program, causing the robot to give a false positive
                           reading
                                  (2)​ Solution: The initial structure of the program required it to iterate through all
                                       contours and evaluate if each was a target. The program was modified to only
                                       evaluate the value of the largest contour in the frame.
                  2.​ Letter Victims
                          a)​ False Positives due to Color
                                  (1)​ Problem: The YOLO neural network would see colored tiles as ‘Omega’,
                                       giving a false positive.
                                  (2)​ Solution: Using the coordinates of the “letter” that the neural network gave as
                                       output, the color value of the supposed “letter” was extracted. If the value was
                                       not black or white (as it is supposed to be), it was thrown out as a false
                                       positive.
   c.​ Innovative solutions
      ●​ General maze
                ○​ We use a 30x30 array to handle any starting position on the field
                ○​ We use an obstacle classification system that utilizes three separate sensors to differentiate walls
                    from obstacles.
                ○​ We use the built-in file system of the Pico in order to handle Lack of Progresses that we might
                    encounter without losing all previous progress.
                ○​ We use an adjust function that moves back and forth in the case of the TOFs of one side not
                    agreeing on a distance value. In order to handle inevitable accumulated error over the course of the
                    maze, we use the walls themselves in order to align the robot during a run.
      ●​ Victim detection
                ○​ YOLO architecture is used to recognize letter victims. Additional validation is also used to ensure
                    the neural network is not detecting a colored tile or other colored object as a victim.
                ○​ Binary inverse thresholding and MinEnclosingCircle / HoughCircle functions are used to detect
                    cognitive target victims
3.​ Performance evaluation
   ●​ To rigorously verify the robot's performance against expected competition challenges , we implemented a
      systematic testing procedure using a modular practice arena featuring standardized ramps, victims, decoy
      victims, speed bumps, obstacles, and colored tiles. The robot achieved a high success rate in navigating these
      scoring items. Most of our errors resulted from hardware issues, victim detection circumstances, and
      navigation errors caused by obstacles and speed bumps. Hardware issues included brownouts and various
      small wiring problems (such as a loose color sensor wire or overloaded battery). Victim detection issues
      stemmed from a variety of circumstances, such as the victim being placed out of the camera’s field of view on
      a tile or the light level causing the YOLO algorithm not to detect a letter victim. The introduction of the ring
      light largely mitigated these. Finally, navigation errors caused by obstacles were prominent, as the robot was
      knocked off course by speed bumps and obstacles. However, this was very rare and combated with the
      introduction of the new robot chassis. While these critical factors did go wrong in testing, they were dealt with,
      leaving the state of the robot as ready for the 2026 RCJ Maze competition.
4.​ Conclusion
      This paper detailed the development of a fully autonomous robot designed for the RoboCupJunior Maze
      competition. By utilizing a sensor array integrated with Breadth-First-Search, error correction, and victim
      recognition algorithms, the robot successfully achieved a high reliability rate in navigating complex, uneven
      terrain and identifying victims. While early iterations struggled with victim detection, protruding cameras,
      brownouts, and size constraints, redesigning the chassis and victim detection algorithms reduced deployment
      errors greatly. Ultimately, our rigorous testing proves the platform is robust, efficient, and highly capable of
      meeting the stringent constraints of the 2026 RoboCup Junior Incheon competition environment.
